Add Ascii folding token filter (#7912)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _analyzers/token-filters/asciifolding.md

---
layout: default

> title: ASCII Folding

Reviewer: Should "folding" be lowercase?

parent: Token filters
nav_order: 20
---

> # ASCIIFolding token filter

Reviewer 2: Let's go with 2 words everywhere: "ASCII foldidng"

Author: @kolchfa-aws thats updated now, thank you for review

> # ASCII Folding token filter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# ASCII folding token filter
```

> The `asciifolding` oken filter converts non-ASCII characters into their closest ASCII equivalents. For example *é* becomes *e*, *ü* becomes *u* and *ñ* becomes *n*. This process is known as *transliteration*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `asciifolding` token filter converts non-ASCII characters into their closest ASCII equivalents. For example *é* becomes *e*, *ü* becomes *u* and *ñ* becomes *n*. This process is known as *transliteration*.
```

> The `asciifolding` token filter converts non-ASCII characters into their closest ASCII equivalents. For example *é* becomes *e*, *ü* becomes *u* and *ñ* becomes *n*. This process is known as *transliteration*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `asciifolding` token filter converts non-ASCII characters to their closest ASCII equivalents. For example, *é* becomes *e*, *ü* becomes *u*, and *ñ* becomes *n*. This process is known as *transliteration*.
```

> `asciifolding` is a token filter that converts non-ASCII characters into their closest ASCII equivalents. For example *é* becomes *e*, *ü* becomes *u* and *ñ* becomes *n*. This process is also known as *transliteration*.

Reviewer 2: Normally, we want to avoid starting sentences with words in code font. Here's an alternative:
```suggestion
The `asciifolding` oken filter converts non-ASCII characters into their closest ASCII equivalents. For example *é* becomes *e*, *ü* becomes *u* and *ñ* becomes *n*. This process is known as *transliteration*.
```

> `asciifolding` token filter offers a number of benefits:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `asciifolding` token filter offers a number of benefits:
```

>   - __Enhanced Search Flexibility__: Users often omit accents or special characters when typing queries. ASCIIFolding ensures that such queries still return relevant results.

Reviewer 2: `**` instead of `__` so Vale doesn't choke:
```suggestion
  - **Enhanced search flexibility**: Users often omit accents or special characters when typing queries. The `asciifolding` token filter ensures that such queries still return relevant results.
```

>   - **Enhanced search flexibility**: Users often omit accents or special characters when typing queries. The `asciifolding` token filter ensures that such queries still return relevant results.

Reviewer: "typing" => "creating" or "entering"?

>   - __Normalization__: Standardizes the indexing process by ensuring that accented characters are consistently converted to their ASCII equivalents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Normalization**: Standardizes the indexing process by ensuring that accented characters are consistently converted to their ASCII equivalents.
```

>   - __Internationalization__: Particularly useful for applications dealing with multiple languages and character sets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Internationalization**: Particularly useful for applications dealing with multiple languages and character sets.
```

>   - **Internationalization**: Particularly useful for applications dealing with multiple languages and character sets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Internationalization**: Particularly useful for applications including multiple languages and character sets.
```

> *Loss of Information*: While ASCIIFolding can simplify searches, it might also lead to loss of specific information, particularly if the distinction between accented and non-accented characters is significant in the dataset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the `asciifolding` token filter can simplify searches, it might also lead to loss of specific information, particularly if the distinction between accented and non-accented characters is significant in the dataset.
```

> While the `asciifolding` token filter can simplify searches, it might also lead to loss of specific information, particularly if the distinction between accented and non-accented characters is significant in the dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the `asciifolding` token filter can simplify searches, it may also lead to the loss of specific information, particularly if the distinction between accented and non-accented characters in the dataset is significant.
```

{: .warning}

## Parameters

> You can configure `asciifolding` token filter using parameter `preserve_original`. Setting this option to `true` keeps both the original token and the ASCII-folded version in the token stream. This can be particularly useful in scenarios where you want to match both the original (with accents) and the normalized (without accents) versions of a term in search queries. Default is `false`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure `asciifolding` token filter using the `preserve_original` parameter. Setting this parameter to `true` keeps both the original token and its ASCII-folded version in the token stream. This can be particularly useful in scenarios where you want to match both the original (with accents) and the normalized (without accents) versions of a term in search queries. Default is `false`.
```

> You can configure `asciifolding` token filter using the `preserve_original` parameter. Setting this parameter to `true` keeps both the original token and its ASCII-folded version in the token stream. This can be particularly useful in scenarios where you want to match both the original (with accents) and the normalized (without accents) versions of a term in search queries. Default is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the `asciifolding` token filter using the `preserve_original` parameter. Setting this parameter to `true` keeps both the original token and its ASCII-folded version in the token stream. This can be particularly useful when you want to match both the original (with accents) and the normalized (without accents) versions of a term in a search query. Default is `false`.
```

## Example

> Following example request creates a new index named `example_index` and defines an analyzer with the `asciifolding` filter and `preserve_original` parameter set to `true`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example request creates a new index named `example_index` and defines an analyzer with the `asciifolding` filter and `preserve_original` parameter set to `true`:
```

```json
PUT /example_index
{
  "settings": {
    "analysis": {
      "filter": {
        "custom_ascii_folding": {
          "type": "asciifolding",
          "preserve_original": true
        }
      },
      "analyzer": {
        "custom_ascii_analyzer": {
          "type": "custom",
          "tokenizer": "standard",
          "filter": [
            "lowercase",
            "custom_ascii_folding"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Generated tokens

> Use the following request to examine the tokens generated using the created analyzer:

Reviewer: "the created" => either just "the" or "an"?
